#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass paper
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding latin9
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref section
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1.75cm
\topmargin 1.75cm
\rightmargin 1.75cm
\bottommargin 1.75cm
\headheight 1.75cm
\headsep 1.75cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
FuL
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Alejandro Kondrasky
\begin_inset Formula $^{1}$
\end_inset

, Daniel Gutson
\begin_inset Formula $^{1}$
\end_inset

, Carlos Areces
\begin_inset Formula $^{1,2}$
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula $^{1}$
\end_inset

FuDePAN: 
\lang spanish
Fundación para el Desarrollo de la Programación en Ácidos Nucleicos
\lang english
, X5002AOO, 
\lang spanish
Córdoba
\lang english
, Argentina.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula $^{2}$
\end_inset

FaMAF: 
\lang spanish
Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Ciudad Universitaria
\lang english
, X5000HUA, 
\lang spanish
Córdoba
\lang english
, Argentina.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Background
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The body of knowledge in biology, particularly in virology and immunology,
 is increasing in volume and complexity.
 This is why it would be useful to have these knowledge represented in a
 formal language inside a knowledge base.
 Subsequently, different methodologies for analysis and manipulation could
 be developed, allowing validity checks to be performed on conclusions obtained
 in experiments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
FuDePAN's Logic processor (FuL) (
\begin_inset Flex Flex:URL
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://ful.googlecode.com
\end_layout

\end_inset

) is being developed to organize, interpret, verify and explore knowledge
 in molecular biology, applied to virology and immunology in particular.
 This will help find inconsistencies and automatically derive new information.
 Its main function will be the verification of conclusions obtained by results
 from experiments using queries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our initial test case will be the following conclusion obtained from experiments
 done by FuDePAN: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
\emph on
Validate the conclusions obtained in the Junin experiment about the temperature-
change effects over the virus secondary structure:
\series default
\emph default

\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 Corroborate that the line of thought that includes the predictions of the
 effects of febrile state over the Junin RNA secondary structure, in which
 it is hypothesized that the temperature increment reduces the production
 of nucleoproteins because the hairpin loop in the intergenic region presents
 dissimilar characteristics when it is compared on the two ambisense genome
 strings when the temperature is increased.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
FuL has a plug-in architecture, simplifying the inclusion of new kinds of
 reasoning services.
 An API will be provided, which defines the way in which knowledge flows
 between the plug-ins and FuL's core reasoning engine.
 An SDK composed of libraries and tools required for building plug-ins will
 also be made available.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The kernel of the tool will be composed of a planner that can handle PDDL
 (Planning Domain Definition Language) input, and a knowledge manager that
 will be the interface between the plug-ins registered in that session and
 the planner.
 Via a XML file, it will be possible to register the plug-ins that FuL will
 utilize in that session and configure different session parameters.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
FuL will include a semantic reasoner for Description Logics (DL) as one
 of the plug-ins, and we will also provide a knowledge representation language
 for the virology domain based on DL.
 This language will allow the development of an ontology of virology knowledge
 that will be available for querying during a FuL session.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
References
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Franz Baader, Deborah L.
 McGuinness, Daniele Nardi, Peter F.
 Patel-Schneider: 
\series bold
The Description Logic Handbook: Theory, implementation, and applications
\series default
.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\series bold
The Seventh International Planning Competition Description of Participant
 Planners of the Deterministic Track
\series default
, 2011.
 
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
href{http://www.plg.inf.uc3m.es/ipc2011-deterministic/ParticipatingPlanners}{
\end_layout

\end_inset

www.plg.inf.uc3m.es/ipc2011-deterministic/ParticipatingPlanners
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

}
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Daniel Gutson, Agustín March, Maximiliano Combina, Daniel Rabinovich:
\series bold
 Prediction of consequences of the febrile status on the RNA secondary structure
 of the Junín Virus
\series default
, 2006.
 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
href{http://www.fudepan.org.ar/node/71}{
\end_layout

\end_inset

www.fudepan.org.ar/node/71
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
